Polish docs for the v1.1.0 release (#221)
harvester/docs: docs/advanced/pcidevices.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: PCI Devices
title: ""
---

# PCI Devices (Experimental)

_Available as of v1.1.0_

A `PCIDevice` in Harvester represents a host device with a PCI address. 
The devices can be passed through the hypervisor to a VM by creating a `PCIDeviceClaim` resource, 
or by using the UI to enable passthrough. Passing a device through the hypervisor means that 
the VM can directly access the device, and effectively owns the device. A VM can even install 
its own drivers for that device.

> This is accomplished using the `pcidevices-controller` addon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is accomplished by using the `pcidevices-controller` addon.
```

To use the PCI devices feature, users need to enable the `pcidevices-controller` addon first.

![](/img/v1.1/vm-import-controller/EnableAddon.png)

## Enabling Passthrough on a PCI Device

> 1. Now go to the `Advanced -> PCI Devices` UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now go to the `Advanced -> PCI Devices` page:
```

   ![](/img/v1.1/pcidevices/advanced-pcidevices-index.png)

1. Search for your device by vendor name (e.g. NVIDIA, Intel, etc.) or device name.

   ![](/img/v1.1/pcidevices/search-pcidevices.png)

1. Select the devices you want to enable for passthrough:

   ![](/img/v1.1/pcidevices/select-pcidevices.png)

> 1. Then click **Enable Passthrough**, read the warning message, if you still want to enable these devices, click **Enable** and wait for all devices to be `Enabled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Then click **Enable Passthrough** and read the warning message. If you still want to enable these devices, click **Enable** and wait for all devices to be `Enabled`.
```

   :::caution

>    Please be careful not to use `host-owned` PCI devices(e.g., management and VLAN NICs). Incorrect device allocation may cause damage to your cluster, including node failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Please do not use `host-owned` PCI devices (e.g., management and VLAN NICs). Incorrect device allocation may cause damage to your cluster, including node failure.
```

Reviewer: `be careful not to use` seems a little confusing

   :::

   ![](/img/v1.1/pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-inprogress.png)

   ![](/img/v1.1/pcidevices/enable-pcidevices-done.png)

## Attaching PCI Devices to a VM

> After enabling these PCI devices, you can click on the VM page and select **Edit Config** to pass these devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling these PCI devices, you can navigate to the **Virtual Machines** page and select **Edit Config** to pass these devices.
```
